<h1 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient">AbstractClient</h1>

```python
AbstractClient(self, domain, organization, clientId, username, password, port=None, logHandlers=None, cleanSession=True, transport='tcp', caFile=None)
```

The underlying client object utilised for Platform connectivity over MQTT
in devices, gateways, and applications.

__Parameters__

- __domain (string)__: Domain denoting the instance of IBM Watson IoT Platform to connect to
- __organization (string)__: IBM Watson IoT Platform organization ID to connect to
- __clientId (string)__: MQTT clientId for the underlying Paho client
- __username (string)__: MQTT username for the underlying Paho client
- __password (string)__: MQTT password for the underlying Paho client
- __port (int)__: MQTT port for the underlying Paho client to connect using.  Defaults to `8883`
- __logHandlers (list<logging.Handler>)__: Log handlers to configure.  Defaults to `None`,
    which will result in a default log handler being created.
- __cleanSession (string)__: Defaults to `true`.  Although this is a true|false parameter,
    it is being handled as a string for some reason
- __transport (string)__: Defaults to `tcp`

__Attributes__

- `client (paho.mqtt.client.Client)`: Built-in Paho MQTT client handling connectivity for the client.
- `logger (logging.logger)`: Client logger.

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.setMessageEncoderModule">setMessageEncoderModule</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.setMessageEncoderModule(self, messageFormat, module)
```

Set a Python module as the encoder/decoder for a specified message format.

__Arguments__

- __messageFormat (string)__: The message format to retreive the encoder for
- __module (module)__: The Python module to set as the encoder/decoder for `messageFormat`

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.getMessageEncoderModule">getMessageEncoderModule</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.getMessageEncoderModule(self, messageFormat)
```

Get the Python module that is currently defined as the encoder/decoder for a specified message format.

__Arguments__

- __messageFormat (string)__: The message format to retrieve the encoder for

__Returns__

`Boolean`: The python module, or `None` if there is no codec defined for the `messageFormat`

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.setKeepAliveInterval">setKeepAliveInterval</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.setKeepAliveInterval(self, newKeepAliveInterval)
```

Reconfigure the keepalive value for any subsequent MQTT connection made
by the client.  This does not affect the keep alive setting of any
existing connection.  Traffic generated by keep alive is minimal, but
also billable as part of your data transfer to/from the Platform.

__Properties__

newKeepAliveInterval (int): Number of seconds for the new keepalive interval

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.getKeepAliveInterval">getKeepAliveInterval</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.getKeepAliveInterval(self)
```

Get the current setting for keepalive.  Note: This is not necessarily the
value used by the current active connection, as any changes to this value
are only applied when a new connection to the Platfrom is established

__Returns__

`int`: Number of seconds the keepalive interval is set to

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.connect">connect</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.connect(self)
```

Connect the client to IBM Watson IoT Platform using the underlying Paho MQTT client

__Raises__

- `ConnectionException`: If there is a problem establishing the connection.

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.disconnect">disconnect</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.disconnect(self)
```

Disconnect the client from IBM Watson IoT Platform

