<h1 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient">AbstractClient</h1>

```python
AbstractClient(self, domain, organization, clientId, username, password, port=8883, logHandlers=None, cleanSession='true', transport='tcp')
```

Represents an abstract message recieved over Mqtt.  All implementations of a Codec must return an object of this type.

__Parameters__

- __domain (string)__: Domain denoting the instance of IBM Watson IoT Platform to connect to
- __organization (string)__: IBM Watson IoT Platform organization ID to connect to
- __clientId (string)__: MQTT clientId for the underlying Paho client
- __username (string)__: MQTT username for the underlying Paho client
- __password (string)__: MQTT password for the underlying Paho client
- __port (int)__: MQTT port for the underlying Paho client to connect using.  Defaults to `8883`
- __logHandlers (list<logging.Handler>)__: Log handlers to configure.  Defaults to `None`,
    which will result in a default log handler being created.
- __cleanSession (string)__: Defaults to `true`.  Although this is a true|false parameter,
    it is being handled as a string for some reason
- __transport (string)__: Defaults to `tcp`

__Attributes__

- `client (paho.mqtt.client.Client)`: Built-in Paho MQTT client handling connectivity for the client.
- `logger (logging.logger)`: Client logger.

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.stats">stats</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.stats(self)
```

I think we killed the use of this and this is dead code

TODO: clean all this up .. should we really be tracking these stats within the client itself in the first place?

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.on_publish">on_publish</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.on_publish(self, mqttc, obj, mid)
```

Called when a message from the client has been successfully sent to IBM Watson IoT Platform.

__Parameters__

- __mqttc (paho.mqtt.client.Client)__: The client instance for this callback
- __obj (object)__: The private user data as set in Client() or user_data_set()
- __mid (int)__: Gives the message id of the successfully published message.

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.getKeepAliveInterval">getKeepAliveInterval</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.getKeepAliveInterval(self)
```

Get the current setting for keepalive.  Note: This is not necessarily the
value used by the current active connection, as any changes to this value
are only applied when a new connection to the Platfrom is established

__Returns__

`int`: Number of seconds the keepalive interval is set to

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.logAndRaiseException">logAndRaiseException</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.logAndRaiseException(self, e)
```

Logs an exception at log level `critical` before raising it.

__Arguments__

- __e (Exception)__: The exception to log/raise

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.disconnect">disconnect</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.disconnect(self)
```

Disconnect the client from IBM Watson IoT Platform

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.setMessageEncoderModule">setMessageEncoderModule</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.setMessageEncoderModule(self, messageFormat, module)
```

Set a Python module as the encoder/decoder for a specified message format.

__Arguments__

- __messageFormat (string)__: The message format to retreive the encoder for
- __module (module)__: The Python module to set as the encoder/decoder for `messageFormat`

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.on_disconnect">on_disconnect</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.on_disconnect(self, mqttc, obj, rc)
```

Called when the client disconnects from IBM Watson IoT Platform.

__Parameters__

- __mqttc (paho.mqtt.client.Client)__: The client instance for this callback
- __obj (object)__: The private user data as set in Client() or user_data_set()
- __rc (int)__: indicates the disconnection state.  If `MQTT_ERR_SUCCESS` (0), the callback was
    called in response to a `disconnect()` call. If any other value the disconnection was
    unexpected, such as might be caused by a network error.

- __See https__://github.com/eclipse/paho.mqtt.python#on_disconnect for more information

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.connect">connect</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.connect(self)
```

Connect the client to IBM Watson IoT Platform using the underlying Paho MQTT client

__Raises__

- `ConnectionException`: If there is a problem establishing the connection.

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.setKeepAliveInterval">setKeepAliveInterval</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.setKeepAliveInterval(self, newKeepAliveInterval)
```

Reconfigure the keepalive value for any subsequent MQTT connection made
by the client.  This does not affect the keep alive setting of any
existing connection.  Traffic generated by keep alive is minimal, but
also billable as part of your data transfer to/from the Platform.

__Properties__

newKeepAliveInterval (int): Number of seconds for the new keepalive interval

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.getMessageEncoderModule">getMessageEncoderModule</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.getMessageEncoderModule(self, messageFormat)
```

Get the Python module that is currently defined as the encoder/decoder for a specified message format.

__Arguments__

- __messageFormat (string)__: The message format to retrieve the encoder for

__Returns__

`Boolean`: The python module, or `None` if there is no codec defined for the `messageFormat`

<h2 id="ibmiotf.AbstractClient.on_log">on_log</h2>

```python
AbstractClient.on_log(self, mqttc, obj, level, string)
```

Called when the client has log information.

__Parameters__

- __mqttc (paho.mqtt.client.Client)__: The client instance for this callback
- __obj (object)__: The private user data as set in Client() or user_data_set()
- __level (int)__: The severity of the message, will be one of `MQTT_LOG_INFO`,
    `MQTT_LOG_NOTICE`, `MQTT_LOG_WARNING`, `MQTT_LOG_ERR`, and `MQTT_LOG_DEBUG`.
- __string (string)__: The log message itself

- __See https__://github.com/eclipse/paho.mqtt.python#on_log for more information

<h1 id="ibmiotf.HttpAbstractClient">HttpAbstractClient</h1>

```python
HttpAbstractClient(self, clientId, logHandlers=None)
```

Base client class restricted to HTTP only.  Unless for some technical reason
you are unable to use the full MQTT-enable client there really is no need to
use this alternative feature-limited client.

<h2 id="ibmiotf.HttpAbstractClient.getContentType">getContentType</h2>

```python
HttpAbstractClient.getContentType(self, dataFormat)
```

Method to detect content type using given data format

<h1 id="ibmiotf.Message">Message</h1>

```python
Message(self, data, timestamp=None)
```

Represents an abstract message recieved over Mqtt.  All implementations of a Codec must return an object of this type.

__Parameters__

- __data (dict)__: The message payload
- __timestamp (datetime)__: Timestamp intended to denote the time the message was sent,
    or `None` if this information is not available.


